NServiceBus page on Azure Docs (#1)
kbaley/azure-docs: articles/service-bus-messaging/solve-complex-problems-with-nservicebus.md

---

> title: Solve complex problems with NServiceBus and Service Bus

Reviewer: We've purposely left out Azure given the entire site is about Azure services. Also, Service Bus is what's used throughout. It felt as an unnecessary repetition.

- Samples
  - In Service Bus samples, under .NET, add a link to:
    - ASB samples page
    - ASB with Azure Functions sample page

- Reference
  - .NET
    - Link to Azure Service Bus transport documentation page

- Resources
  - NServiceBus (link to our docs or marketing site)

# Solve complex problems with NServiceBus and Service Bus

NServiceBus is a messaging framework built on top of Service Bus that helps developers focus on business logic by abstracting infrastructure concerns. In this guide, we'll build a solution to exchange messages between two services. We'll also show how to automatically retry failing messages and review options for hosting these services in Azure.

The code for this page is available at -- INSERT LINK FROM https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-net/azuremessagingservicebus-samples/ --. 

## Prerequisites

The sample assumes you have created a Service Bus namespace. The instructions to do this are [available here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-create-namespace-portal).

## Download and prepare the solution

> The code for the project is available at --LINK TO CODE--. The solution consists of three projects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code for the project is available at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/tree/master/samples/NServiceBus. The solution consists of three projects:
```

> - Sender: a console application that will be used to send messages (and receive a reply?)

Reviewer: It will send and receive replies.

> - Receiver: a console application that will receive messages from the sender (and send a reply?)

Reviewer: 👍

> - Shared: a class library containing the message contract shared between the sender and receiver

Reviewer: 2 contracts

> 1. Clone the repository at -- LINK TO CODE --
> 1. Open the solution in your favorite code editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone the repository at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/
1. Open the solution at `samples/NServiceBus/send-receive-with-nservicebus/SendReceiveWithNservicebus.sln` in your favorite code editor
```

-- Go into a short commands vs. events definition here? --

1. Open the Shared project
1. Create a new C# class called `Ping.cs`
1. Add the following code to the class
    - Ping.cs code
1. Create another C# class called `Pong.cs`
1. Add the following code to the class
    - Pong.cs code

The `Ping` class defines a message that our Sender will send to the Receiver. It implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`, an interface from the NServiceBus package. This is a signal to the reader that this is a command. I.e. we are asking a process to do something.

The `Pong` class represents a message that we will send back to the Sender from the Receiver. It implements the `NServiceBus.IMessage` interface to indicate it is a simple message type with no further semantics.

These are the two message types we will use in our project. The next step is to configure the Sender to use Service Bus and to send a `Ping` message.

## Set up the sender

The Sender is an endpoint that will emit our `Ping` message. Here, we'll configure the sender to use Service Bus as the transport mechanism, then construct a `Ping` instance and send it.

> 

Reviewer: Missing routing note.

## Download and prepare the solution

The code for the project is available at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/tree/master/samples/NServiceBus. The solution consists of three projects:

- Sender: a console application that will be used to send messages (and receive a reply?)
- Receiver: a console application that will receive messages from the sender (and send a reply?)
- Shared: a class library containing the message contract shared between the sender and receiver

1. Clone the repository at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/
1. Open the solution at `samples/NServiceBus/send-receive-with-nservicebus/SendReceiveWithNservicebus.sln` in your favorite code editor
1. Open the `appsettings.json` file and update the `AzureServiceBusConnectionString` to match the connection string for your Service Bus namespace.

-- Display a flow diagram overview of the endpoints from ServiceInsight --
-- Discuss the message flow and how the diagram was generated

## Define the shared message contracts

> The Shared class library is where we define the contracts used to send our messages. It includes a reference to the `NServiceBus` Nuget package and contains interfaces we can use for our messages. The interfaces are not required but they give us some extra validation from NServiceBus and allow the code to be self-documenting when you know the type of a message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Shared class library is where we define the contracts used to send our messages. It includes a reference to the `NServiceBus` NuGet package and contains interfaces we can use for our messages. The interfaces are not required but they give us some extra validation from NServiceBus and allow the code to be self-documenting when you know the type of message.
```

First we'll review the `Ping.cs` class

```csharp
public class Ping : NServiceBus.ICommand
{
    public int Round { get; set; }
}
```

> The `Ping` class defines a message that our Sender will send to the Receiver. It is a Plain Old C# Object (POCO) that implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`, an interface from the NServiceBus package. This is a signal to the reader that this is a command. I.e. we are asking a process to do something.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Ping` class defines a message that our Sender will send to the Receiver. It is a Plain Old CLR Object (POCO) that implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`, an interface from the NServiceBus package. This is a signal to the reader that this is a command. I.e. we are asking a process to do something.
```

Like the sender, we set the receiver up with a Microsoft Generic Host as a console application. It uses the same logging and endpoint configuration (using Service Bus as the transport) but with a different name to distinguish it from the sender:

```csharp
var endpointConfiguration = new EndpointConfiguration("Receiver");
```

Since this endpoint only replies to its originator and does not initiate new conversations, there is no routing configuration required. It also doesn't require a background worker like the Sender does.

### The Ping message handler

The Receiver project contains a _message handler_ called `PingHandler`:

```csharp
public class PingHandler : NServiceBus.IHandleMessages<Ping>
{
    private readonly ILogger<PingHandler> logger;

    public PingHandler(ILogger<PingHandler> logger)
    {
        this.logger = logger;
    }

    public async Task Handle(Ping message, IMessageHandlerContext context)
    {
        logger.LogInformation($"Processing Ping message #{message.Round}");

> 

Reviewer: @kbaley we said we'll have a commented-out exception throwing here, right?

Author: Yeah we did. Re-reading this, I completely forgot to actually _test_ the recoverability. I'll revise.

---
title: Solve complex problems with NServiceBus and Service Bus
description: Learn how to solve complex problems with distributed systems on Service Bus using the NServiceBus framework.
author: kbaley, SeanFeldman                      

> ms.author: spelluru                  

Author: I'm planning to check with them but this is what they had in the instructions

ms.service: service-bus-messaging    
ms.topic: how-to                     
ms.date: 06/01/2021                  
ms.custom: template-how-to           
---

# Solve complex problems with NServiceBus and Service Bus

> NServiceBus is a messaging framework built on top of Service Bus that helps developers focus on business logic by abstracting infrastructure concerns. In this guide, we'll build a solution to exchange messages between two services. We'll also show how to automatically retry failing messages and review options for hosting these services in Azure.

Reviewer 2: Going a little further, should we avoid overloading "service" here (I'm not sure if "component" is the best replacement term)?

```suggestion
NServiceBus is a messaging framework built on top of Service Bus that helps developers focus on business logic by abstracting infrastructure concerns. In this guide, we'll build a solution which exchanges messages between two components. We'll also show how to automatically retry failing messages and review options for hosting these components in Azure.
```

> NServiceBus is a messaging framework built on top of Service Bus that helps developers focus on business logic by abstracting infrastructure concerns. In this guide, we'll build a solution to exchange messages between two services. We'll also show how to automatically retry failing messages and review options for hosting these services in Azure.

Author: I tried "component" but it seems just as overloaded as "service". What I really want to say is "endpoint" but I don't know how well-known the term is. I'm inclined to leave it as "service" and let the rest of the article tease out what we mean by it.

The code for this page is available at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/tree/master/samples/NServiceBus/send-receive-with-nservicebus. 

## Prerequisites

The sample assumes you have created a Service Bus namespace. The instructions to do this are [available here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-create-namespace-portal).

## Download and prepare the solution

> The code for the project is available at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/tree/master/samples/NServiceBus. The solution consists of three projects:

Author: No, I'll remove this one.

> - Sender: a console application that will be used to send messages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sender: a console application that sends messages
```

- Receiver: a console application that will receive messages from the sender and reply back
- Shared: a class library containing the message contract shared between the sender and receiver

The following diagram, generated by [ServiceInsight](https://particular.net/serviceinsight) shows how the message flow works in the sample application. 

-- Screenshot of flow diagram from ServiceInsight --

> 1. Clone the repository at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clone the [Service Bus repository](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/)
```

1. Open the solution at `samples/NServiceBus/send-receive-with-nservicebus/SendReceiveWithNservicebus.sln` in your favorite code editor
1. Open the `appsettings.json` file and update the `AzureServiceBusConnectionString` to match the connection string for your Service Bus namespace.

## Define the shared message contracts

> The Shared class library is where we define the contracts used to send our messages. It includes a reference to the `NServiceBus` Nuget package and contains interfaces we can use for our messages. The interfaces are not required but they give us some extra validation from NServiceBus and allow the code to be self-documenting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Shared class library is where we define the contracts used to send our messages. It includes a reference to the `NServiceBus` NuGet package and contains interfaces we can use for our messages. The interfaces are not required but they give us some extra validation from NServiceBus and allow the code to be self-documenting.
```

First we'll review the `Ping.cs` class

```csharp
public class Ping : NServiceBus.ICommand
{
    public int Round { get; set; }
}
```

> The `Ping` class defines a message that our Sender will send to the Receiver. It is a Plain Old C# Object (POCO) that implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`, an interface from the NServiceBus package. This is a signal to the reader that this is a command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Ping` class defines a message that the Sender will send to the Receiver. It is a Plain Old C# Object (POCO) that implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`, an interface from the NServiceBus package. This is a signal to the reader that this is a command.
```

> It is a Plain Old C# Object (POCO) that implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`

I think this may be an oxymoron. As I understand it, a POCO is a type which only inherits from from `object` and does not implement any framework-specific interfaces.

> This is a signal to the reader that this is a command.

Is it only that? I thought NServiceBus uses it to identify commands in the absence of unobtrusive conventions.

Reviewer 3: Could just add "although there are other ways to identify messages without using interfaces" and link to https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/messaging/conventions

The other message class in the Shared projects is `Pong.cs`:

```csharp
public class Pong : NServiceBus.IMessage
{
    public string Acknowledgement { get; set; }
}
```

> `Pong` is also a POCO though this one implements `NServiceBus.IMessage`. The `IMessage` interface represents a generic message that has no other semantics in NServiceBus. In our sample, it is a reply that our Receiver will send back to the Sender to indicate that the message was received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Pong` is also a POCO though this one implements `NServiceBus.IMessage`. The `IMessage` interface represents a generic message that has no other semantics in NServiceBus. In our sample, it is a reply that the Receiver will send back to the Sender to indicate that the message was received.
```

Same comment again regarding POCO.

These are the two message types we will use in our project. The next step is to configure the Sender to use Service Bus and to send a `Ping` message.

## Set up the sender

> The Sender is an endpoint that will emit our `Ping` message. Here, we'll configure the sender to use Service Bus as the transport mechanism, then construct a `Ping` instance and send it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sender is an endpoint that emit our `Ping` message. Here, we configure the Sender to use Service Bus as the transport mechanism, then construct a `Ping` instance and send it.
```

> In the `Main` method of `Program.cs`, we configure the Sender endpoint as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `Main` method of `Program.cs`, we configure the Sender endpoint:
```

```csharp
var host = Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
    // Configure a host for the endpoint
    .ConfigureLogging((context, logging) =>
    {
        logging.AddConfiguration(context.Configuration.GetSection("Logging"));

        logging.AddConsole();
    })
    .UseConsoleLifetime()
    .UseNServiceBus(context =>
    {
        // Configure the NServiceBus endpoint
        var endpointConfiguration = new EndpointConfiguration("Sender");

        var transport = endpointConfiguration.UseTransport<AzureServiceBusTransport>();
        var connectionString = context.Configuration.GetConnectionString("AzureServiceBusConnectionString");
        transport.ConnectionString(connectionString);

        transport.Routing().RouteToEndpoint(typeof(Ping), "Receiver");

        // Operational scripting: https://docs.particular.net/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting
        endpointConfiguration.EnableInstallers();

        return endpointConfiguration;
    })
    .ConfigureServices(services => services.AddHostedService<SenderWorker>())
    .Build();

await host.RunAsync();
```

There's a lot to unpack here so we'll review it step by step.

### Configure a host for the endpoint

> Hosting and logging are configured using standard Microsoft Generic Host options. For now, it is configured to run as a console application but it can be modified to run in Azure Functions with minimal changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hosting and logging are configured using standard Microsoft Generic Host options. For now, the endpoint is configured to run as a console application but it can be modified to run in Azure Functions with minimal changes.
```

### Configure the NServiceBus endpoint

Next, we tell the host to use NServiceBus with the `.UseNServiceBus` extension method. The method takes a callback function that returns an endpoint that will be started when the host runs.

In the endpoint configuration, we specify `AzureServiceBus` for our transport, providing a connection string from `appsettings.json`. Next, we set up the routing so that messages of type `Ping` are sent to an endpoint named "Receiver". This allows NServiceBus to automate the process of dispatching the message to the destination without requiring the receiver's address.

> The call to `EnableInstallers` will set up our topology in Service Bus namespace when the endpoint is launched, creating the necessary queues where necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The call to `EnableInstallers` will set up our topology in the Service Bus namespace when the endpoint is launched, creating the necessary queues where necessary.
```

### Set up background service to send messages

> The final piece to the sender is `SenderWorker`, a background service that is configured to send a `Ping` message every second.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final piece of the sender is `SenderWorker`, a background service that is configured to send a `Ping` message every second.
```

```csharp
public class SenderWorker : BackgroundService
{
    private readonly IMessageSession messageSession;
    private readonly ILogger<SenderWorker> logger;

    public SenderWorker(IMessageSession messageSession, ILogger<SenderWorker> logger)
    {
        this.messageSession = messageSession;
        this.logger = logger;
    }

    protected override async Task ExecuteAsync(CancellationToken stoppingToken)
    {
        try
        {
            var round = 0;
            while (!stoppingToken.IsCancellationRequested)
            {
                await messageSession.Send(new Ping { Round = round++ })
                    .ConfigureAwait(false);

                logger.LogInformation($"Message #{round}");

                await Task.Delay(1_000, stoppingToken)
                    .ConfigureAwait(false);
            }
        }
        catch (OperationCanceledException)
        {
            // graceful shutdown
        }
    }
}
```

> The `IMessageSession` used in `ExecuteAsync` is injected into the SenderWorker and allows us to send messages through NServiceBus outside of a message handler. The routing we configured in `Sender` specifies the destination of the `Ping` messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `IMessageSession` used in `ExecuteAsync` is injected into `SenderWorker` and allows us to send messages through NServiceBus outside of a message handler. The routing we configured in `Sender` specifies the destination of the `Ping` messages.
```

> The Sender application also contains a `PongHandler`. We'll get back to this after we've discussed the Receiver which we'll do next.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sender application also contains a `PongHandler`. We'll get back to this after we've discussed the Receiver, which we'll do next.
```

## Set up the receiver

> The Receiver is an endpoint that will: listen for a `Ping` message, log that the message was received, then reply back to the sender. In this section, we'll quickly review the endpoint configuration, which is similar to the Sender, and then turn our attention to the message handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Receiver is an endpoint that will: listen for a `Ping` message, log that the message was received, and then reply back to the sender. In this section, we'll quickly review the endpoint configuration, which is similar to the Sender, and then turn our attention to the message handler.
```

> Like the sender, we set the receiver up with a Microsoft Generic Host as a console application. It uses the same logging and endpoint configuration (with Service Bus as the message transport) but with a different name to distinguish it from the sender:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like the sender, we set up the receiver as a console application using the Microsoft Generic Host. It uses the same logging and endpoint configuration (with Service Bus as the message transport) but with a different name to distinguish it from the sender:
```

```csharp
var endpointConfiguration = new EndpointConfiguration("Receiver");
```

> Since this endpoint only replies to its originator and doesn't initiate new conversations, no routing configuration is required. It also doesn't need a background worker like the Sender does, since it only replies back once it's received a message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since this endpoint only replies to its originator and doesn't initiate new conversations, no routing configuration is required. It also doesn't need a background worker like the Sender does, since it only replies when it receives a message.
```

### The Ping message handler

> The Receiver project contains a _message handler_ called `PingHandler`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Receiver project contains a _message handler_ named `PingHandler`:
```

var endpointConfiguration = new EndpointConfiguration("Receiver");
```

Since this endpoint only replies to its originator and doesn't initiate new conversations, no routing configuration is required. It also doesn't need a background worker like the Sender does, since it only replies back once it's received a message.

### The Ping message handler

The Receiver project contains a _message handler_ called `PingHandler`:

```csharp
public class PingHandler : NServiceBus.IHandleMessages<Ping>
{
    private readonly ILogger<PingHandler> logger;

    public PingHandler(ILogger<PingHandler> logger)
    {
        this.logger = logger;
    }

    public async Task Handle(Ping message, IMessageHandlerContext context)
    {
        logger.LogInformation($"Processing Ping message #{message.Round}");

        // if (new Random().Next(100) <= 20)
        // {
        //     throw new Exception("BOOM");
        // }

        var reply = new Pong { Acknowledgement = $"Ping #{message.Round} processed at {DateTimeOffset.UtcNow:s}" };

        await context.Reply(reply);
    }
}
```

Let's ignore the commented code for now; we'll get back to it later when we talk about recovering from failure.

> The class implements `IHandleMessages<Ping>` which contains a single method in the contract: `Handle`. This contract is a signal to NServiceBus that when the endpoint receives a message of type `Ping`, it should be processed by the `Handle` method in this handler. The `Handle` method takes the message itself as a parameter, as well as an `IMessageHandlerContext` which allows further messaging operations, such as sending, replying, or publishing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The class implements `IHandleMessages<Ping>`, which defines one method: `Handle`. This interface tells NServiceBus that when the endpoint receives a message of type `Ping`, it should be processed by the `Handle` method in this handler. The `Handle` method takes the message itself as a parameter, and an `IMessageHandlerContext` which allows further messaging operations, such as sending, replying, or publishing.
```

> Our `PingHandler` is straightforward: when a `Ping` message is received, we log the message details, then reply back to the sender with a new `Pong` message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our `PingHandler` is straightforward: when a `Ping` message is received, we log the message details and reply back to the sender with a new `Pong` message.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > In the Sender's configuration, we specified that `Ping` messages should be routed to the Receiver. NServiceBus adds metadata to the messages indicating, among other things, the origin of the message. This is why we don't need to specify any routing data for the `Pong` reply message; it will automatically be routed back to its origin: the Sender.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In the Sender's configuration, we specified that `Ping` messages should be routed to the Receiver. NServiceBus adds metadata to the messages indicating, among other things, the origin of the message. This is why we don't need to specify any routing data for the `Pong` reply message; it is automatically routed back to its origin: the Sender.
```

>

With the Sender and Receiver both properly configured, we can now run the solution.

## Run the solution

To launch the solution, we need to run both the Sender and the Receiver. If you are using Visual Studio Code, launch the "Debug All" configuration. If you are using Visual Studio, you must configure the solution to launch both the Sender and Receiver projects:

1. Right-click the solution in Solution Explorer
1. Select "Set startup projects..."
1. Select **Multiple Startup Projects**
1. For both the Sender and the Receiver, select "Debug" in the dropdown list

Launch the solution. Two console applications will appear.

-- SCREENSHOTS --

> In the Sender, notice that a `Ping` message is dispatched every second, thanks to the `SenderWorker` background job. The Receiver displays details about each `Ping` message it receives while the Sender logs details about the `Pong` messages it receives in reply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Sender, notice that a `Ping` message is dispatched every second, thanks to the `SenderWorker` background job. The Receiver displays the details of each `Ping` message it receives and the Sender logs the details of each `Pong` message it receives in reply.
```

NServiceBus comes with robust recoverability features to handle failure. When a message handler fails, messages are automatically retried based on a pre-defined policy. There are two types of retry policy: immediate retries and delayed retries. The best way to describe how they work is to see them in action. Let's add a retry policy to our Sender endpoint:

1. Open `Program.cs` in the Sender project
1. After the `.EnableInstallers` line, add the following code

```csharp
endpointConfiguration.SendFailedMessagesTo("error");
var recoverability = endpointConfiguration.Recoverability();
recoverability.Immediate(
    immediate =>
    {
        immediate.NumberOfRetries(3);
    });
recoverability.Delayed(
    delayed =>
    {
        delayed.NumberOfRetries(2);
        delayed.TimeIncrease(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(5));
    });
```

Before we discuss how this policy works, let's see it in action. We're going to test the recoverability policy but first we need to simulate an error. Open the `PingHandler` code in the Receiver project and uncomment these lines:

```csharp
if (new Random().Next(100) <= 20)
{
    throw new Exception("BOOM");
}
```

> Now, when the Receiver handles a `Ping` message, it will fail 20% of the time. Launch the solution again and let's see what happens:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, when the Receiver handles `Ping` messages, it fails 20% of the time. Launch the solution again and let's see what happens:
```

-- SCREENSHOT of Sender showing retries --

> With our PingHandler a lot less reliable, about one in five messages are failing. We can see the retry policy kicking in for those messages. The first time a message fails, it is immediately retried up to 3 times (the immediate retry policy). Sometimes, this works and sometimes it doesn't. If it doesn't, the delayed retry policy kicks in and the message is delayed for 5 seconds. At this time, it is retried again another 3 times (i.e. another iteration of the immediate retry policy). If it _still_ fails, NServiceBus backs off again, this time for 10 seconds before trying again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With our less reliable `PingHandler`, about one in five messages fail. We can see the retry policy kicking in for those messages. The first time a message fails, it is immediately retried up to 3 times (the immediate retry policy). Sometimes, this works and sometimes it doesn't. If it doesn't, the delayed retry policy kicks in and the message is delayed for 5 seconds. After those 5 seconds have passed, the message is retried again another 3 times (i.e. another iteration of the immediate retry policy). If it _still_ fails, NServiceBus delays the message again, this time for 10 seconds, before trying again.
```

> If, after running through the full retry policy, PingHandler still doesn't succeed, the message is placed in a _centralized_ error queue, called `error` as defined by the call to `SendFailedMessagesTo`. This differs from the dead-lettering mechanism in Service Bus which has a dead-letter queue for each processing queue. With NServiceBus, the dead-letter queues in Service Bus act as true poison message queues, whereas messages that end up in the centralized error queue can be reprocessed at a later time, if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If, after running through the full retry policy, `PingHandler` still doesn't succeed, the message is placed in a _centralized_ error queue, named `error`, as defined by the call to `SendFailedMessagesTo`. This differs from the dead-lettering mechanism in Service Bus which has a dead-letter queue for each processing queue. With NServiceBus, the dead-letter queues in Service Bus act as true poison message queues, whereas messages that end up in the centralized error queue can be reprocessed at a later time, if necessary.
```

The retry policy helps to address [several types of errors](https://particular.net/blog/but-all-my-errors-are-severe) that are often transient or semi-transient in nature. That is, errors that are temporary and often go away if the message is simply reprocessed after a short delay. Examples include: network failures, database locks, or third-party API outages.

> Once a message is in the error queue, you can examine the message details in the tool of your choice, then decide what to do with it. For example, using [ServicePulse](https://particular.net/servicepulse), we can view the message details as well as the reason for the failure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a message is in the error queue, you can examine the message details in the tool of your choice, then decide what to do with it. For example, using [ServicePulse](https://particular.net/servicepulse), we can view the message details and the reason for the failure:
```

-- SCREENSHOT OF ServicePulse --

> After examining the details, we can edit the message, then send the message back into its original queue for processing. If there are multiple failed messages of the same type in the error queue, they can be resubmitted as a batch to their original destinations in ServicePulse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After examining the details, we can send the message back to its original queue for processing. We can also edit the message before doing so. If there are multiple messages in the error queue which failed for the same reason, they can all be sent back to their original destinations as a batch.
```

Next, it's time to figure out where to deploy our solution in Azure.

## Where to host the services in Azure

> As discussed earlier, the Sender and Receiver endpoints are configured to run as console applications. But the endpoints can also be hosted in various other Azure services, including: Azure Functions, Azure App Services, Azure Container Instances, Azure Kubernetes Services, and Azure VMs. For example, this is how the Sender endpoint can be configured to run as an Azure Function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this sample, the Sender and Receiver endpoints are configured to run as console applications. They can also be hosted in various Azure services, including: Azure Functions, Azure App Services, Azure Container Instances, Azure Kubernetes Services, and Azure VMs. For example, this is how the Sender endpoint can be configured to run as an Azure Function:
```

```csharp
[assembly: FunctionsStartup(typeof(Startup))]
public class Startup : FunctionsStartup
{
    public override void Configure(IFunctionsHostBuilder builder)
    {
        builder.UseNServiceBus(() =>
        {
            var configuration = new ServiceBusTriggeredEndpointConfiguration("Sender");
            var transport = configuration.AdvancedConfiguration.Transport;
            transport.Routing().RouteToEndpoint(typeof(Ping), "Receiver");

            return configuration;
        });
    }
}
```

For more information about using NServiceBus with Functions, see [this article](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/hosting/azure-functions/service-bus)

## Next steps

> For more information about using NServiceBus with Azure services, see the following articles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about using NServiceBus with Azure services, see the following articles:

```

NServiceBus comes with robust recoverability features to handle failure. When a message handler fails, messages are automatically retried based on a pre-defined policy. There are two types of retry policy: immediate retries and delayed retries. The best way to describe how they work is to see them in action. Let's add a retry policy to our Sender endpoint:

1. Open `Program.cs` in the Sender project
1. After the `.EnableInstallers` line, add the following code

```csharp
endpointConfiguration.SendFailedMessagesTo("error");
var recoverability = endpointConfiguration.Recoverability();
recoverability.Immediate(
    immediate =>
    {
        immediate.NumberOfRetries(3);
    });
recoverability.Delayed(
    delayed =>
    {
        delayed.NumberOfRetries(2);
        delayed.TimeIncrease(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(5));
    });
```

Before we discuss how this policy works, let's see it in action. We're going to test the recoverability policy but first we need to simulate an error. Open the `PingHandler` code in the Receiver project and uncomment these lines:

```csharp
if (new Random().Next(100) <= 80)
{
    throw new Exception("BOOM");
}
```

> Now, when the Receiver handles a `Ping` message, it will fail 80% of the time. Launch the solution again and let's see what happens in the Receiver. Here is the partial output of the Receiver:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, when the Receiver handles `Ping` messages, it fails 80% of the time. Launch the solution again and let's see what happens:
```

![Receiver with exceptions](./media/nservicebus/receiver-exception.png)

> With our PingHandler a lot less reliable, about four in five messages are failing. We can see the retry policy kicking in for those messages. The first time a message fails, it is immediately retried up to 3 times (the immediate retry policy). Sometimes, this works and sometimes it doesn't. If it doesn't, the delayed retry policy kicks in and the message is delayed for 5 seconds. At this time, it is retried again another 3 times (i.e. another iteration of the immediate retry policy). If it _still_ fails, NServiceBus backs off again, this time for 10 seconds before trying again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With our less reliable `PingHandler`, about four out of five messages fail. We can see the retry policy kicking in for those messages. The first time a message fails, it is immediately retried up to 3 times (the immediate retry policy). Sometimes, this works and sometimes it doesn't. If it doesn't, the delayed retry policy kicks in and the message is delayed for 5 seconds. After those 5 seconds have passed, the message is retried again another 3 times (i.e. another iteration of the immediate retry policy). If it _still_ fails, NServiceBus delays the message again, this time for 10 seconds, before trying again.
```

---
title: Solve complex problems with NServiceBus and Service Bus
description: Learn how to solve complex problems with distributed systems on Service Bus using the NServiceBus framework.
author: kbaley, SeanFeldman                      
ms.author: spelluru                  
ms.service: service-bus-messaging    
ms.topic: how-to                     
ms.date: 06/01/2021                  
ms.custom: template-how-to           
---

# Solve complex problems with NServiceBus and Service Bus

> NServiceBus is a messaging framework built on top of Service Bus that helps developers focus on business logic by abstracting infrastructure concerns. In this guide, we'll build a solution which exchanges messages between two services. We'll also show how to automatically retry failing messages and review options for hosting these services in Azure.

Author: I commented in this [here](https://github.com/kbaley/azure-docs/pull/1#discussion_r658841093) but it got lost when I updated the text. 

> I tried "component" but it seems just as overloaded as "service". What I really want to say is "endpoint" but I don't know how well-known the term is. I'm inclined to leave it as "service" and let the rest of the article tease out what we mean by it.

## Define the shared message contracts

The Shared class library is where we define the contracts used to send our messages. It includes a reference to the `NServiceBus` NuGet package and contains interfaces we can use to identify our messages. The interfaces are not required but they give us some extra validation from NServiceBus and allow the code to be self-documenting.

First we'll review the `Ping.cs` class

```csharp
public class Ping : NServiceBus.ICommand
{
    public int Round { get; set; }
}
```

The `Ping` class defines a message that the Sender will send to the Receiver. It is a simple C# class that implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`, an interface from the NServiceBus package. This is a signal to the reader that this is a command, although there are other ways to identify messages [without using interfaces](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/messaging/conventions).

The other message class in the Shared projects is `Pong.cs`:

```csharp
public class Pong : NServiceBus.IMessage
{
    public string Acknowledgement { get; set; }
}
```

> `Pong` is also a simple C# object though this one implements `NServiceBus.IMessage`. The `IMessage` interface represents a generic message that is neither a command nor an event, and is commonly used for replies. In our sample, it is a reply that the Receiver will send back to the Sender to indicate that the message was received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Pong` is also a simple C# object though this one implements `NServiceBus.IMessage`. The `IMessage` interface represents a generic message that is neither a command nor an event, and is commonly used for replies. In our sample, it is a reply that the Receiver sends back to the Sender to indicate that a message was received.
```

> These are the two message types we will use in our project. The next step is to configure the Sender to use Service Bus and to send a `Ping` message.

Reviewer 2: There are three projects in the solution.

```suggestion
These are the two message types we will use. The next step is to configure the Sender to use Service Bus and to send a `Ping` message.
```

## Set up the sender

> The Sender is an endpoint that emits our `Ping` message. Here, we configure the Sender to use Service Bus as the transport mechanism, then construct a `Ping` instance and send it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sender is an endpoint that sends our `Ping` message. Here, we configure the Sender to use Service Bus as the transport mechanism, then construct a `Ping` instance and send it.
```

    })
    .ConfigureServices(services => services.AddHostedService<SenderWorker>())
    .Build();

await host.RunAsync();
```

There's a lot to unpack here so we'll review it step by step.

### Configure a host for the endpoint

Hosting and logging are configured using standard [Microsoft Generic Host options](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/generic-host). For now, the endpoint is configured to run as a console application but it can be modified to run in Azure Functions with minimal changes, which we'll discuss later in this article.

### Configure the NServiceBus endpoint

Next, we tell the host to use NServiceBus with the `.UseNServiceBus(…)` extension method. The method takes a callback function that returns an endpoint that will be started when the host runs.

In the endpoint configuration, we specify `AzureServiceBus` for our transport, providing a connection string from `appsettings.json`. Next, we set up the routing so that messages of type `Ping` are sent to an endpoint named "Receiver". This allows NServiceBus to automate the process of dispatching the message to the destination without requiring the receiver's address.

> The call to `EnableInstallers` will set up our topology in the Service Bus namespace when the endpoint is launched, creating the necessary queues where necessary. In production environments, [operational scripting](https://docs.particular.net/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting) is another option to create the topology.

Reviewer 2: Double "necessary".

```suggestion
The call to `EnableInstallers` will set up our topology in the Service Bus namespace when the endpoint is launched, creating the required queues where necessary. In production environments, [operational scripting](https://docs.particular.net/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting) is another option to create the topology.
```

### Set up background service to send messages

The final piece of the sender is `SenderWorker`, a background service that is configured to send a `Ping` message every second.

```csharp
public class SenderWorker : BackgroundService
{
    private readonly IMessageSession messageSession;
    private readonly ILogger<SenderWorker> logger;

    public SenderWorker(IMessageSession messageSession, ILogger<SenderWorker> logger)
    {
        this.messageSession = messageSession;
        this.logger = logger;
    }

    protected override async Task ExecuteAsync(CancellationToken stoppingToken)
    {
        try
        {
            var round = 0;
            while (!stoppingToken.IsCancellationRequested)
            {
                await messageSession.Send(new Ping { Round = round++ })
                    .ConfigureAwait(false);

                logger.LogInformation($"Message #{round}");

                await Task.Delay(1_000, stoppingToken)
                    .ConfigureAwait(false);
            }
        }
        catch (OperationCanceledException)
        {
            // graceful shutdown
        }
    }
}
```

> The `IMessageSession` used in `ExecuteAsync` is injected into `SenderWorker` and allows us to send messages through NServiceBus outside of a message handler. The routing we configured in `Sender` specifies the destination of the `Ping` messages. This keeps the topology of the system (which messages are routed to which addresses) a separate concern from the business code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `IMessageSession` used in `ExecuteAsync` is injected into `SenderWorker` and allows us to send messages using NServiceBus outside of a message handler. The routing we configured in `Sender` specifies the destination of the `Ping` messages. This keeps the topology of the system (which messages are routed to which addresses) as a separate concern from the business code.
```

The Sender application also contains a `PongHandler`. We'll get back to this after we've discussed the Receiver, which we'll do next.

## Set up the receiver

> The Receiver is an endpoint that will: listen for a `Ping` message, log that the message was received, and then reply back to the sender. In this section, we'll quickly review the endpoint configuration, which is similar to the Sender, and then turn our attention to the message handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Receiver is an endpoint that listens for a `Ping` message, logs when a message is received, and replies back to the sender. In this section, we'll quickly review the endpoint configuration, which is similar to the Sender, and then turn our attention to the message handler.
```

> Like the sender, we set up the receiver as a console application using the Microsoft Generic Host. It uses the same logging and endpoint configuration (with Service Bus as the message transport) but with a different name to distinguish it from the sender:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like the sender, we set up the receiver as a console application using the Microsoft Generic Host. It uses the same logging and endpoint configuration (with Service Bus as the message transport) but with a different name, to distinguish it from the sender:
```

1. Right-click the solution in Solution Explorer
1. Select "Set Startup Projects..."
1. Select **Multiple startup projects**
1. For both the Sender and the Receiver, select "Start" in the dropdown list

Launch the solution. Two console applications will appear, one for the Sender and one for the Receiver.

# [Sender](#tab/Sender)

![Endpoint sending Ping messages to the Receiver](./media/nservicebus/sender.png)

# [Receiver](#tab/Receiver)

![Endpoint receiving Ping messages from the Sender](./media/nservicebus/receiver.png)

---

In the Sender, notice that a `Ping` message is dispatched every second, thanks to the `SenderWorker` background job. The Receiver displays the details of each `Ping` message it receives and the Sender logs the details of each `Pong` message it receives in reply.

Now that we have everything working, let's break it.

## Resilience in action

Errors are a fact of life in software systems. It is inevitable that code will fail and it can do so for a variety of reasons, such as network failures, database locks, changes in a third-party API, and plain old coding errors.

> NServiceBus comes with robust recoverability features to handle failure. When a message handler fails, messages are automatically retried based on a pre-defined policy. There are two types of retry policy: immediate retries and delayed retries. The best way to describe how they work is to see them in action. Let's add a retry policy to our Receiver endpoint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NServiceBus has robust recoverability features for handling failures. When a message handler fails, messages are automatically retried based on a pre-defined policy. There are two types of retry policy: immediate retries and delayed retries. The best way to describe how they work is to see them in action. Let's add a retry policy to our Receiver endpoint:
```

1. Open `Program.cs` in the Sender project

> 1. After the `.EnableInstallers` line, add the following code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. After the `.EnableInstallers` line, add the following code:
```

```csharp
endpointConfiguration.SendFailedMessagesTo("error");
var recoverability = endpointConfiguration.Recoverability();
recoverability.Immediate(
    immediate =>
    {
        immediate.NumberOfRetries(3);
    });
recoverability.Delayed(
    delayed =>
    {
        delayed.NumberOfRetries(2);
        delayed.TimeIncrease(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(5));
    });
```

> Before we discuss how this policy works, let's see it in action. We're going to test the recoverability policy but first we need to simulate an error. Open the `PingHandler` code in the Receiver project and uncomment this line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before we discuss how this policy works, let's see it in action. Before we test the recoverability policy we need to simulate an error. Open the `PingHandler` code in the Receiver project and uncomment this line:
```

```csharp
throw new Exception("BOOM");
```

Now, when the Receiver handles a `Ping` message, it will fail. Launch the solution again and let's see what happens in the Receiver. 

With our less reliable `PingHandler`, all of our messages fail. We can see the retry policy kicking in for those messages. The first time a message fails, it is immediately retried up to 3 times:

![Immediate retry policy that retries messages up to 3 times](./media/nservicebus/immediate-retries.png)

Of course, it will continue to fail so when the 3 immediate retries are used up, the delayed retry policy kicks in and the message is delayed for 5 seconds:

![Delayed retry policy that delays the messages in increments of 5 seconds before attempting another round of immediate retries](./media/nservicebus/delayed-retries.png)

>  After those 5 seconds have passed, the message is retried again another 3 times (i.e. another iteration of the immediate retry policy). These will also fail and NServiceBus delays the message again, this time for 10 seconds, before trying again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 After those 5 seconds have passed, the message is retried again another 3 times (i.e. another iteration of the immediate retry policy). These will also fail and NServiceBus will delay the message again, this time for 10 seconds, before trying again.
```

If, after running through the full retry policy, `PingHandler` still doesn't succeed, the message is placed in a _centralized_ error queue, named `error`, as defined by the call to `SendFailedMessagesTo`. 

![Failed message](./media/nservicebus/failed-message.png)

The concept of a centralized error queue differs from the dead-lettering mechanism in Service Bus which has a dead-letter queue for each processing queue. With NServiceBus, the dead-letter queues in Service Bus act as true poison message queues, whereas messages that end up in the centralized error queue can be reprocessed at a later time, if necessary.

> The retry policy helps to address [several types of errors](https://particular.net/blog/but-all-my-errors-are-severe) that are often transient or semi-transient in nature. That is, errors that are temporary and often go away if the message is simply reprocessed after a short delay. Examples include: network failures, database locks, or third-party API outages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The retry policy helps to address [several types of errors](https://particular.net/blog/but-all-my-errors-are-severe) that are often transient or semi-transient in nature. That is, errors that are temporary and often go away if the message is simply reprocessed after a short delay. Examples include network failures, database locks, and third-party API outages.
```

Once a message is in the error queue, you can examine the message details in the tool of your choice, then decide what to do with it. For example, using [ServicePulse](https://particular.net/servicepulse), we can view the message details and the reason for the failure:

![ServicePulse](./media/nservicebus/servicepulse.png)

After examining the details, we can send the message back to its original queue for processing. We can also edit the message before doing so. If there are multiple messages in the error queue which failed for the same reason, they can all be sent back to their original destinations as a batch.

Next, it's time to figure out where to deploy our solution in Azure.

## Where to host the services in Azure

> In this sample, the Sender and Receiver endpoints are configured to run as console applications. They can also be hosted in various Azure services, including: Azure Functions, Azure App Services, Azure Container Instances, Azure Kubernetes Services, and Azure VMs. For example, this is how the Sender endpoint can be configured to run as an Azure Function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this sample, the Sender and Receiver endpoints are configured to run as console applications. They can also be hosted in various Azure services including Azure Functions, Azure App Services, Azure Container Instances, Azure Kubernetes Services, and Azure VMs. For example, this is how the Sender endpoint can be configured to run as an Azure Function:
```

Note that NServiceBus requires at least the Standard tier. The Basic tier will not work.

## Download and prepare the solution

The code for the project is available at https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/tree/master/samples/NServiceBus. The solution consists of three projects:

- Sender: a console application that sends messages
- Receiver: a console application that receives messages from the sender and replies back
- Shared: a class library containing the message contracts shared between the sender and receiver

The following diagram, generated by [ServiceInsight](https://particular.net/serviceinsight), shows how the message flow works in the sample application. 

![Sequence Diagram](./media/nservicebus/sequence-diagram.png)

1. Clone the [Service Bus repository](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-bus/)
1. Open `samples/NServiceBus/send-receive-with-nservicebus/SendReceiveWithNservicebus.sln` in your favorite code editor
1. Open the `appsettings.json` file and update the `AzureServiceBusConnectionString` to match the connection string for your Service Bus namespace.

## Define the shared message contracts

> The Shared class library is where we define the contracts used to send our messages. It includes a reference to the `NServiceBus` NuGet package and contains interfaces we can use for our messages. The interfaces are not required but they give us some extra validation from NServiceBus and allow the code to be self-documenting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Shared class library is where we define the contracts used to send our messages. It includes a reference to the `NServiceBus` NuGet package and contains interfaces we can use to identify our messages. The interfaces are not required but they give us some extra validation from NServiceBus and allow the code to be self-documenting.
```

First we'll review the `Ping.cs` class

```csharp
public class Ping : NServiceBus.ICommand
{
    public int Round { get; set; }
}
```

The `Ping` class defines a message that our Sender will send to the Receiver. It is a Plain Old C# Object (POCO) that implements `NServiceBus.ICommand`, an interface from the NServiceBus package. This is a signal to the reader that this is a command.

The other message class in the Shared projects is `Pong.cs`:

```csharp
public class Pong : NServiceBus.IMessage
{
    public string Acknowledgement { get; set; }
}
```

> `Pong` is also a POCO though this one implements `NServiceBus.IMessage`. The `IMessage` interface represents a generic message that has no other semantics in NServiceBus. In our sample, it is a reply that the Receiver will send back to the Sender to indicate that the message was received.

Reviewer 3: I know you say it's a reply in the next sentence. It just seems weird to say "it could mean anything" where if you're actually identifying commands and events, replies are the only thing left that could use IMessage.
```suggestion
`Pong` is also a POCO though this one implements `NServiceBus.IMessage`. The `IMessage` interface represents a generic message that neither a command nor an event, and is commonly used for replies. In our sample, it is a reply that the Receiver will send back to the Sender to indicate that the message was received.
```

These are the two message types we will use in our project. The next step is to configure the Sender to use Service Bus and to send a `Ping` message.

## Set up the sender

> The Sender is an endpoint that emit our `Ping` message. Here, we configure the Sender to use Service Bus as the transport mechanism, then construct a `Ping` instance and send it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Sender is an endpoint that emits our `Ping` message. Here, we configure the Sender to use Service Bus as the transport mechanism, then construct a `Ping` instance and send it.
```

In the `Main` method of `Program.cs`, we configure the Sender endpoint:

```csharp
var host = Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
    // Configure a host for the endpoint
    .ConfigureLogging((context, logging) =>
    {
        logging.AddConfiguration(context.Configuration.GetSection("Logging"));

        logging.AddConsole();
    })
    .UseConsoleLifetime()
    .UseNServiceBus(context =>
    {
        // Configure the NServiceBus endpoint
        var endpointConfiguration = new EndpointConfiguration("Sender");

        var transport = endpointConfiguration.UseTransport<AzureServiceBusTransport>();
        var connectionString = context.Configuration.GetConnectionString("AzureServiceBusConnectionString");
        transport.ConnectionString(connectionString);

>         transport.Routing().RouteToEndpoint(typeof(Ping), "Receiver");

Reviewer 3: It may not be good to give the false impression that these are fluent methods. If you agree, then…
```suggestion
        var routing = transport.Routing();
        routing.RouteToEndpoint(typeof(Ping), "Receiver");
```

Author: Reviewed with Sean. We don't think people will read too much into this and since there's only one route, it makes the code a bit more concise.

>         // Operational scripting: https://docs.particular.net/transports/azure-service-bus/operational-scripting

Reviewer 3: This is a weird comment to leave in the middle. Why does that matter? Should say something like "Creates queues for the sample. Normally, you would script infrastructure creation at install time" and then have the link.

        endpointConfiguration.EnableInstallers();
        endpointConfiguration.AuditProcessedMessagesTo("audit");

        return endpointConfiguration;
    })
    .ConfigureServices(services => services.AddHostedService<SenderWorker>())
    .Build();

await host.RunAsync();
```

There's a lot to unpack here so we'll review it step by step.

### Configure a host for the endpoint

> Hosting and logging are configured using standard Microsoft Generic Host options. For now, the endpoint is configured to run as a console application but it can be modified to run in Azure Functions with minimal changes.

Reviewer 3: Link to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/generic-host ?

Link to https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/hosting/azure-functions/service-bus ?

### Configure the NServiceBus endpoint

> Next, we tell the host to use NServiceBus with the `.UseNServiceBus` extension method. The method takes a callback function that returns an endpoint that will be started when the host runs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, we tell the host to use NServiceBus with the `.UseNServiceBus(…)` extension method. The method takes a callback function that returns an endpoint that will be started when the host runs.
```

In the endpoint configuration, we specify `AzureServiceBus` for our transport, providing a connection string from `appsettings.json`. Next, we set up the routing so that messages of type `Ping` are sent to an endpoint named "Receiver". This allows NServiceBus to automate the process of dispatching the message to the destination without requiring the receiver's address.

> The call to `EnableInstallers` will set up our topology in the Service Bus namespace when the endpoint is launched, creating the necessary queues where necessary.

Reviewer 3: Or take the comment out of the code and do all that exposition here.

Author: We did this ☝️

### Set up background service to send messages

The final piece of the sender is `SenderWorker`, a background service that is configured to send a `Ping` message every second.

```csharp
public class SenderWorker : BackgroundService
{
    private readonly IMessageSession messageSession;
    private readonly ILogger<SenderWorker> logger;

    public SenderWorker(IMessageSession messageSession, ILogger<SenderWorker> logger)
    {
        this.messageSession = messageSession;
        this.logger = logger;
    }

    protected override async Task ExecuteAsync(CancellationToken stoppingToken)
    {
        try
        {
            var round = 0;
            while (!stoppingToken.IsCancellationRequested)
            {
                await messageSession.Send(new Ping { Round = round++ })
                    .ConfigureAwait(false);

                logger.LogInformation($"Message #{round}");

                await Task.Delay(1_000, stoppingToken)
                    .ConfigureAwait(false);
            }
        }
        catch (OperationCanceledException)
        {
            // graceful shutdown
        }
    }
}
```

> The `IMessageSession` used in `ExecuteAsync` is injected into `SenderWorker` and allows us to send messages through NServiceBus outside of a message handler. The routing we configured in `Sender` specifies the destination of the `Ping` messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `IMessageSession` used in `ExecuteAsync` is injected into `SenderWorker` and allows us to send messages through NServiceBus outside of a message handler. The routing we configured in `Sender` specifies the destination of the `Ping` messages. This keeps the topology of the system (which messages are routed to which addresses) a separate concern from the business code.
```

```csharp
var endpointConfiguration = new EndpointConfiguration("Receiver");
```

Since this endpoint only replies to its originator and doesn't initiate new conversations, no routing configuration is required. It also doesn't need a background worker like the Sender does, since it only replies when it receives a message.

### The Ping message handler

The Receiver project contains a _message handler_ named `PingHandler`:

```csharp
public class PingHandler : NServiceBus.IHandleMessages<Ping>
{
    private readonly ILogger<PingHandler> logger;

    public PingHandler(ILogger<PingHandler> logger)
    {
        this.logger = logger;
    }

    public async Task Handle(Ping message, IMessageHandlerContext context)
    {
        logger.LogInformation($"Processing Ping message #{message.Round}");

        // throw new Exception("BOOM");

        var reply = new Pong { Acknowledgement = $"Ping #{message.Round} processed at {DateTimeOffset.UtcNow:s}" };

        await context.Reply(reply);
    }
}
```

Let's ignore the commented code for now; we'll get back to it later when we talk about recovering from failure.

> The class implements `IHandleMessages<Ping>`, which defines one method: `Handle`. This interface tells NServiceBus that when the endpoint receives a message of type `Ping`, it should be processed by the `Handle` method in this handler. The `Handle` method takes the message itself as a parameter, and an `IMessageHandlerContext` which allows further messaging operations, such as sending, replying, or publishing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The class implements `IHandleMessages<Ping>`, which defines one method: `Handle`. This interface tells NServiceBus that when the endpoint receives a message of type `Ping`, it should be processed by the `Handle` method in this handler. The `Handle` method takes the message itself as a parameter, and an `IMessageHandlerContext` which allows further messaging operations, such as replying, sending commands, or publishing events.
```

# [Receiver](#tab/Receiver)

![Endpoint receiving Ping messages from the Sender](./media/nservicebus/receiver.png)

---

In the Sender, notice that a `Ping` message is dispatched every second, thanks to the `SenderWorker` background job. The Receiver displays the details of each `Ping` message it receives and the Sender logs the details of each `Pong` message it receives in reply.

Now that we have everything working, let's break it a bit.

## Resilience in action

Errors are a fact of life in software systems. It is inevitable that code will fail and it can do so for a variety of reasons, such as network failures, database locks, changes in a third-party API, and plain old coding errors.

NServiceBus comes with robust recoverability features to handle failure. When a message handler fails, messages are automatically retried based on a pre-defined policy. There are two types of retry policy: immediate retries and delayed retries. The best way to describe how they work is to see them in action. Let's add a retry policy to our Receiver endpoint:

1. Open `Program.cs` in the Sender project
1. After the `.EnableInstallers` line, add the following code

```csharp

> endpointConfiguration.SendFailedMessagesTo("error");

Reviewer 3: Does it work _without_ this?

Author: Yes, and in fact, it's already in the sample code. I'm including it here so we can talk about it below.

Reviewer 3: One other thing that makes me think about. I get how you're putting in the recoverability policy to show it's a thing and also to shorten it for the demo, but a comment that "there is one of these built in for free, you don't need 12 lines of code just to make it happen" might be good.

Next, it's time to figure out where to deploy our solution in Azure.

## Where to host the services in Azure

In this sample, the Sender and Receiver endpoints are configured to run as console applications. They can also be hosted in various Azure services, including: Azure Functions, Azure App Services, Azure Container Instances, Azure Kubernetes Services, and Azure VMs. For example, this is how the Sender endpoint can be configured to run as an Azure Function:

```csharp
[assembly: FunctionsStartup(typeof(Startup))]
[assembly: NServiceBusEndpointName("Sender")]

public class Startup : FunctionsStartup
{
    public override void Configure(IFunctionsHostBuilder builder)
    {
        builder.UseNServiceBus(() =>
        {
            var configuration = new ServiceBusTriggeredEndpointConfiguration("Sender");
            var transport = configuration.AdvancedConfiguration.Transport;
            transport.Routing().RouteToEndpoint(typeof(Ping), "Receiver");

            return configuration;
        });
    }
}
```

> For more information about using NServiceBus with Functions, see [this article](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/hosting/azure-functions/service-bus)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about using NServiceBus with Functions, see [Azure Functions with Azure Service Bus](https://docs.particular.net/nservicebus/hosting/azure-functions/service-bus) in the NServiceBus documentation.
```
